# Brief guide into finding similar source code with Apollo

### Environment

[Babelfish must be running and have Java driver installed.](https://doc.bblf.sh/user/getting-started.html)
Cassandra or ScyllaDB must be running.

### Prepare the source code

Apollo works with Git repositories stored in [Siva](https://github.com/src-d/go-siva) format.
Refer to [Borges](https://github.com/src-d/borges). We expect that the files will be in `/data` below.

### Extract the features

We convert every file into a [weighted set of features](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bag-of-words_model).
The batches for the `hash` command are written to `./bow*.asdf` (by default splitted by 2 GB) and
the calculated global feature value frequencies are written to`./docfreq.asdf`. We use three
extractors: literals, identifiers and deterministic AST subpaths of size 4. We double the importance
of the latter features and throw away any values which appear in less than 4 files. Only Java source
code is analysed. We optimize the pipeline executing by using the disk cache to save
the [UASTs](https://doc.bblf.sh/uast/code-to-ast.html) between each pass. The extracted bags
are additionally saved in the database. 

```
apollo bags -r /data --bow bow.asdf --docfreq docfreq.asdf \
    -f lit -f id -f uast2seq --uast2seq-seq-len 4 --uast2seq-weight 2 --min-docfreq 4 \
    -l Java --persist DISK_ONLY
```

> Docker users should add `--bblfsh bblfshd --cassandra cassandra`.

More about [`bags`](cmd/bags.md).

### Hash the samples

We hash the files which were converted into bags in the previous step and stored as several
`./bow*.asdf` files. The hashing parameters are written to `./params.asdf`.
The Weighted Jaccard Similarity threshold, which is the closer to 1 the less files are considered
similar, equals `0.8`. The hashtables are written to the database.

```
apollo hash 'bow*.asdf' -p params.asdf -t 0.8
```

> This step requires an NVIDIA GPU.

> Docker users should add `--cassandra=cassandra`.

More about [`hash`](cmd/hash.md).

### Query for a file

Given a Git hash of a file in the dataset, list the similar files:
```
apollo query -i <git hash>
```

> Docker users should add `--cassandra cassandra`.

More about [`query`](cmd/hash.md).

### Find groups of similar files

Find connected components in the resulting similarity graph and write them to `./cc.asdf`.

```
apollo cc -o cc.asdf
```

> Docker users should add `--cassandra cassandra`.

Run the default community detection algorithm and write the clusters to `./communities.asdf`.

```
apollo cmd -i cc.asdf -o communities.asdf
```

> Docker users should add `--cassandra cassandra`.

Output the report to stdout.

```
apollo dumpcmd communities.asdf
```

> Docker users should add `--cassandra cassandra`.

More about: [`cc`](cmd/cc.md), [`cmd`](cmd/cmd.md), [`dumpcmd`](cmd/dumpcmd.md).
